# Swagger

Swagger Auto document generation code using swagger-autogen, swagger-jsdoc

Here are my findings:

I found 2 best libraries to automate swagger documentation

1. swagger-autogen
2. swagger-jsdoc

Both libraries require a helper library "swagger-ui-express"

i) Swagger autogen (Not Preferred)

pros:

=> Auto generates maximum documentation based on API and its structure (parameters, queries, request method, request body etc..)
=> We can customize autogenerated documentation.

cons:

=> Not working properly with typescript.
=> Unable to catch all the request methods when built with typescript.

Example:

app.get('/path/:id', (req, res) => {

        //swagger document customization

        ...
        // #swagger.description = 'Some description...'
        /**
            #swagger.parameters['id'] = {
                in: <string>,
                description: <string>,
                required: <boolean>,
                type: <string>,
                format: <string>,
                schema: <array>, <object> or <string>
            }
        */
        ...
    })

ii) Swagger Jsdoc (Preferred)

pros:

=> It works based on the semantic comment of the API, which is based on JSDoc(popular code comment conventions).
=> This semantic comment will mainly act as technical document(comments) of the code, so that developers can understand what the API is doing
what parameters it recives and its type what it returns on success and failures etc..
=> We dont need to create any files, we just need to write comment above the API code.

cons:

=> Need to write comment with "@openapi" semantic convention explaining about the API, the parameters it accepts and its types, responses etc.. (which will be used by swagger-jsdoc to generate swagger documentation).

Example:

/\*\*

- @openapi
- /:
- get:
-     description: Welcome to swagger-jsdoc!
-     responses:
-       200:
-         description: Returns a mysterious string.
  \*/
  app.get('/', (req, res) => {
  res.send('Hello World!');
  });
